README.md, before:

# Project Title
Authors: Siddharth Balodi, Charles Benkard, Mikel Ibarra Gallardo, and Stephanie Ta

## Summary


## How to run the data analysis
We are using a virtual environment to make our computational environment reproducible.

To replicate our analysis:

1. Clone this GitHub repository to your local machine:
    - Click the green `<> Code` button and copy the url.
    - Navigate to where you'd like the cloned repository to reside in your local machine via the terminal.
    - Run the command `git clone <url>` in the terminal.
2. Create an environment from the environment file:
    - Navigate into the cloned (local) repository by running the command `cd dsci-310_airline-delay-classification_group-17`.
    - Run the command `conda env create --file environment.yml` in the terminal.
    - Activate the environment by running the command `conda activate airline_project_env` in the terminal.
3. Open JupterLab by running the command `jupyter lab` in the terminal.
4. In the JupyterLab web application, navigate to the `reports` folder, open the file `airline-delay-classification-report.ipynb`.
5. Change the kernel in the JupyerLab web application:
    - Under the `Kernel` tab, click on `Change Kernel...`.
    - Select the `Python [conda env:airline_project_env]` option in the dropdown that pops up.
6. Run the report from top to bottom in the JupyterLab web application.


## Dependencies
Python version 3.11.5

### Python packages:
  - `altair==5.2.0`
  - `jupyterlab==4.0.10`
  - `matplotlib==3.8.2`
  - `nb_conda_kernels==2.3.1`
  - `numpy==1.26.4`
  - `pandas==2.2.0`
  - `scikit-learn==1.4.0`

## Licences

Commit message:

Updated README.md : Added project title and summary

README.md, after:

# Analysing Airline Delays and Cancellations in 2019
Authors: Siddharth Balodi, Charles Benkard, Mikel Ibarra Gallardo, and Stephanie Ta

## Summary

The airline industry plays a vital role in global transportation, yet it faces challenges such as flight delayts and cacellations which can inconvenience passengers and disrupt travel plans. In this project, we aim to conduct a comprehensive analysis of airline delays and cancellations using the 2019 dataset sourced from Kaggle. This dataset provides detailed information about flight delays, cancellations, reasons for delays, and other relevant factors across various airlines operating in the Untied States of America. Our analysis will focus on identifying patterns, trends, and factors contributing to delatys and cancellations, with the ultimate goal of gaining and providing insights to gelp airlines optimize their operations, improve punctuality, and enhance customer satisfaction. Through this project, we aim to contribute valuable insights to the aviation industry and proivde actionable reccomendations for mitigating delays and cancellations, ultimately imporving the travel experience for passengers.


## How to run the data analysis
We are using a virtual environment to make our computational environment reproducible.

To replicate our analysis:

1. Clone this GitHub repository to your local machine:
    - Click the green `<> Code` button and copy the url.
    - Navigate to where you'd like the cloned repository to reside in your local machine via the terminal.
    - Run the command `git clone <url>` in the terminal.
2. Create an environment from the environment file:
    - Navigate into the cloned (local) repository by running the command `cd dsci-310_airline-delay-classification_group-17`.
    - Run the command `conda env create --file environment.yml` in the terminal.
    - Activate the environment by running the command `conda activate airline_project_env` in the terminal.
3. Open JupterLab by running the command `jupyter lab` in the terminal.
4. In the JupyterLab web application, navigate to the `reports` folder, open the file `airline-delay-classification-report.ipynb`.
5. Change the kernel in the JupyerLab web application:
    - Under the `Kernel` tab, click on `Change Kernel...`.
    - Select the `Python [conda env:airline_project_env]` option in the dropdown that pops up.
6. Run the report from top to bottom in the JupyterLab web application.


## Dependencies
Python version 3.11.5

### Python packages:
  - `altair==5.2.0`
  - `jupyterlab==4.0.10`
  - `matplotlib==3.8.2`
  - `nb_conda_kernels==2.3.1`
  - `numpy==1.26.4`
  - `pandas==2.2.0`
  - `scikit-learn==1.4.0`

## Licences
